CI_CD.md, before:

# CI/CD Pipeline Configuration

## Overview
This project uses GitHub Actions for automated deployments to three environments:
- **DEV**: Automatic deployment on push to `develop` branch (resettable data)
- **STAGING**: Automatic deployment on push to `staging` branch (stable demo data)
- **PROD**: Manual approval required via GitHub Actions UI (protected customer data)

## Environments

### DEV Environment
- **API**: https://kilnagent-dev-api-5081cea892e1.herokuapp.com/
- **Web**: https://kilnagent-dev-web-c7550aee2620.herokuapp.com/
- **Purpose**: Testing new features with fresh seed data
- **Database**: Can be reset anytime using `npm run db:reset:dev`
- **Branch**: `develop`
- **Deploy**: Automatic on push

### STAGING Environment
- **API**: https://kilnagent-staging-api-7fb238fcf409.herokuapp.com/
- **Web**: https://kilnagent-staging-web-88c9deda5fce.herokuapp.com/
- **Purpose**: Validate migrations and features before production
- **Database**: Never reset - stable demo data
- **Branch**: `staging`
- **Deploy**: Automatic on push

### PROD Environment
- **API**: https://kilnagent-api-df5a6f66c40d.herokuapp.com/
- **Web**: https://kilnagent-web-5f4c2bf2cab6.herokuapp.com/
- **Purpose**: Live customer data
- **Database**: Protected - automatic backup before deployment
- **Branch**: `main`
- **Deploy**: Manual approval required

## Workflow

### Feature Development
```bash
# Create feature branch from develop
git checkout develop
git pull origin develop
git checkout -b feature/my-new-feature

# Make changes and commit
git add .
git commit -m "Add new feature"

# Push to trigger DEV deployment
git push origin feature/my-new-feature

# Create PR to develop
# Once merged, DEV will auto-deploy
```

### Staging Release
```bash
# Merge develop into staging
git checkout staging
git pull origin staging
git merge develop
git push origin staging

# Automatic deployment to STAGING
# Test migrations and features
```

### Production Release
```bash
# Merge staging into main
git checkout main
git pull origin main
git merge staging
git push origin main

# Go to GitHub Actions
# Run "Deploy to PRODUCTION" workflow
# Type "DEPLOY TO PRODUCTION" to confirm
# Automatic backup created before deployment
```

## Database Management

### Seed Data
```bash
# Seed DEV environment
npm run db:seed:dev

# Seed STAGING environment
npm run db:seed:staging

# Reset DEV database (destructive!)
npm run db:reset:dev
```

### Backups
```bash
# Create manual backup of PROD
npm run db:backup:prod

# List all backups
heroku pg:backups --app kilnagent-api

# Restore from backup
heroku pg:backups:restore --app kilnagent-api
```

## GitHub Secrets Required

Add these secrets in GitHub repository settings:
- `HEROKU_API_KEY`: Your Heroku API key
- `HEROKU_EMAIL`: Your Heroku account email

To get your Heroku API key:
```bash
heroku auth:token
```

## Safety Features

### Production Protection
- ✅ Manual approval required for PROD deployments
- ✅ Automatic database backup before deployment
- ✅ TypeScript compilation check before deployment
- ✅ Separate staging environment for migration testing

### Data Safety
- ✅ DEV database can be reset without affecting other environments
- ✅ STAGING database never resets - stable for demos
- ✅ PROD database automatically backed up before changes

## Troubleshooting

### Deployment Failed
1. Check GitHub Actions logs for errors
2. Verify Heroku secrets are correct
3. Ensure TypeScript compiles locally: `npm run build`

### Database Migration Issues
1. Test migration in DEV first
2. Validate in STAGING before PROD
3. If PROD fails, restore from backup

### Rollback Deployment
```bash
# Rollback to previous release
heroku releases:rollback --app kilnagent-api
heroku releases:rollback --app kilnagent-web
```

Commit message:

Update CI_CD documentation with setup complete status

CI_CD.md, after:

# CI/CD Pipeline Configuration

## ✅ Setup Complete

Your three-tier CI/CD pipeline is fully configured and operational!

## Overview
This project uses GitHub Actions for automated deployments to three environments:
- **DEV**: Automatic deployment on push to `develop` branch (resettable data)
- **STAGING**: Automatic deployment on push to `staging` branch (stable demo data)
- **PROD**: Manual approval required via GitHub Actions UI (protected customer data)

## Environments

### DEV Environment ✅
- **API**: https://kilnagent-dev-api-5081cea892e1.herokuapp.com/
- **Web**: https://kilnagent-dev-web-c7550aee2620.herokuapp.com/
- **Purpose**: Testing new features with fresh seed data
- **Database**: Can be reset anytime using `npm run db:reset:dev`
- **Branch**: `develop`
- **Deploy**: Automatic on push
- **Status**: Deployed and operational

### STAGING Environment
- **API**: https://kilnagent-staging-api-7fb238fcf409.herokuapp.com/
- **Web**: https://kilnagent-staging-web-88c9deda5fce.herokuapp.com/
- **Purpose**: Validate migrations and features before production
- **Database**: Never reset - stable demo data
- **Branch**: `staging`
- **Deploy**: Automatic on push

### PROD Environment
- **API**: https://kilnagent-api-df5a6f66c40d.herokuapp.com/
- **Web**: https://kilnagent-web-5f4c2bf2cab6.herokuapp.com/
- **Purpose**: Live customer data
- **Database**: Protected - automatic backup before deployment
- **Branch**: `main`
- **Deploy**: Manual approval required

## Workflow

### Feature Development
```bash
# Create feature branch from develop
git checkout develop
git pull origin develop
git checkout -b feature/my-new-feature

# Make changes and commit
git add .
git commit -m "Add new feature"

# Push to trigger DEV deployment
git push origin feature/my-new-feature

# Create PR to develop
# Once merged, DEV will auto-deploy
```

### Staging Release
```bash
# Merge develop into staging
git checkout staging
git pull origin staging
git merge develop
git push origin staging

# Automatic deployment to STAGING
# Test migrations and features
```

### Production Release
```bash
# Merge staging into main
git checkout main
git pull origin main
git merge staging
git push origin main

# Go to GitHub Actions
# Run "Deploy to PRODUCTION" workflow
# Type "DEPLOY TO PRODUCTION" to confirm
# Automatic backup created before deployment
```

## Database Management

### Seed Data
```bash
# Seed DEV environment
npm run db:seed:dev

# Seed STAGING environment
npm run db:seed:staging

# Reset DEV database (destructive!)
npm run db:reset:dev
```

### Backups
```bash
# Create manual backup of PROD
npm run db:backup:prod

# List all backups
heroku pg:backups --app kilnagent-api

# Restore from backup
heroku pg:backups:restore --app kilnagent-api
```

## GitHub Secrets Required

Add these secrets in GitHub repository settings:
- `HEROKU_API_KEY`: Your Heroku API key
- `HEROKU_EMAIL`: Your Heroku account email

To get your Heroku API key:
```bash
heroku auth:token
```

## Safety Features

### Production Protection
- ✅ Manual approval required for PROD deployments
- ✅ Automatic database backup before deployment
- ✅ TypeScript compilation check before deployment
- ✅ Separate staging environment for migration testing

### Data Safety
- ✅ DEV database can be reset without affecting other environments
- ✅ STAGING database never resets - stable for demos
- ✅ PROD database automatically backed up before changes

## Troubleshooting

### Deployment Failed
1. Check GitHub Actions logs for errors
2. Verify Heroku secrets are correct
3. Ensure TypeScript compiles locally: `npm run build`

### Database Migration Issues
1. Test migration in DEV first
2. Validate in STAGING before PROD
3. If PROD fails, restore from backup

### Rollback Deployment
```bash
# Rollback to previous release
heroku releases:rollback --app kilnagent-api
heroku releases:rollback --app kilnagent-web
```
